Pnasnou.

ww

No ancient writer bas been so thoroughly subjected to all kinds
of criticism as Horace. The number os those who, in ancient
and ¹modern times, have puhlished editions of his whole works,
or os datached portione, is so great, that the mere enumeration
os tlretn would require a volume. We might suppose at first
glanae that all the aida which can be desired in regard toan
ancient autlror-grammarians, manuscripts, and commentatore-
exist in rich abundance sorHorace; and yet, upon a closer
examination‚ we find that much still remains to ba done. Two
ancient grammarians have lest commentarios on Horace-namely,
Helonius Acron and Pomponius Porphyrion. They lived towards
the close os the fifth century aster Christ; but their scholia, as
they have come down to us, are to a great extent mixed up with
later comments. Besides these, Jacob Cruquius, in his edition
(Antwerp, 1578), has made up an ancient commentary from tlrs
marginal notes ‚of four Codices Blandinioni, so called from the
Blandin monastery on the Blandin Hill‚ in Ghent. These ancient
scholia are not so good as those which we possess on some other
writers3 but they are uselul on account ol the interesting and
valuable information which they contain regardingpersons men·
tioned by Horace, particularly in the Satires, and which these
commentatore had extracted from earlier boolrs de potonis Hora·
licens. Consequently, in every edition of the poet they must be
mentioned and made use os.

There are more than two hundred manuscripts os Horace in
existence, some os them very good. The above-mentioned Blan-
dt'niani, made use of by Cruquius, were particularly excellent,
butare now lost. Only a sew os the others have been thoronghly
collated; and it is matter ol astonishment that, notwithstand-
ing the number of editions, a textos tlre Horatian poems, really
founded on the manuscripts, and critically amended, is still a
desideratum. The first who published an edition os Horace with
a commentary was christophorus bandinus Qtereaaethfflh‘x

uss

 

